READMEs updated and all pipelines w/ images added (#1)
WayScience/CellProfiler_Prototyping: 1.illumination_correction/README.md

# Cell Profiler Illumination Correction Pipeline

> In this module, I present the 10 CellProfiler pipelines I created using various manual parameters to create the illumination function calcuated from all of the images within the NF1 data set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this module, I present 10 CellProfiler pipelines I created using various manual parameters.
Each pipeline calculates a different illumination function (depending on parameters) using all Schwann cell images from the NF1 data set.
```

A couple of suggestions to improve clarity :)

The parameters for each module to create an illumination function are the **same** for each channel.

The chosen image for comparison from the data set is **D6_01_1_4_DAPI_001.tif** because to the large artifact present in the bottom right corner. 
I chose this image because in the [CellProfiler illumination correction tutorial](https://cellprofiler-examples.s3.amazonaws.com/ExampleIlluminationCorrection_Tutorial.pdf), it gives an example of an image with a large artifact that was removed using illumination correction. 

> Based on this, I wanted to see how these pipelines did with an one image from the NF1 data set that contained a large artifact and assess if the pipelines could remove it like in the example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on this, I wanted to see how these pipelines performed with  one image from the NF1 data set that contained a large artifact and assess if the pipelines could remove it like in the example.
```

## Opinions for each pipeline

Below I provide my opinions regarding each pipeline, how the illumination correction function performed on the chosen image, and how it performed in general with all of the images.

### Formatting of the pipeline titles

> The pipelines have titles that are meant for you to input into CellProfiler in order. Here is the parameters that I changed for these pipelines and the options within them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pipelines have titles that are meant for you to input into CellProfiler in order.
Here are the parameters that I changed for these pipelines and the options within them:
```

1 sentence per line please :)

#### CorrectIlluminationCalculate Module

> - "Select how the illumination function is calculated": `Regular` or `Divide`

Reviewer: woooo! so many good details

**For more information on these modules and what the parameters do, please reference the CellProfiler documentation for the [CorrectIlluminationCalculate module](http://d1zymp9ayga15t.cloudfront.net/content/Documentation/cp2.1_2.2manual/CorrectIlluminationCalculate.html) and [CorrectIlluminationApply module](http://d1zymp9ayga15t.cloudfront.net/content/Documentation/cp2.1_2.2manual/CorrectIlluminationApply.html).**

### Regular -> Each image -> Median -> Manual 40 -> Divide

- Fast runtime.
- All images are very dim, hard to tell if illumination correction occurred.
- Must brighten images to see the objects.
- For the chosen image, once brightened in ImageJ, it looks like the nuclei have become darker in the center and then brighter on the edges.
    - Due to this, this pipeline is likely not viable as it could impact the biological anaylsis.

### Regular -> All: Across Cycles -> Median -> Manual 40 -> Divide 

- Much slower runtime, approximately 12 minutes.
- Creates a weird "shadow" effect, where in all the images, there looks to be dark shadows of the object being stained for based on the channel. 
See example below from the DAPI channel:

> ![Shadow Example](Examples/Shadow_Example.png)

Reviewer: This is really nice to see this example image! Why not have example images for all? (i know it's a bunch more work, so if you don't think having examples is necessary, please don't add them)

Author: I am going to hold off on the adding example images for all of them. I picked those two because the images that they have from the "chosen images" did not show the shadow or faint box issue very well so I needed to find better examples. For the other pipelines, the images they have available will show the issues well.

> # Cell Profiler Illumination Correction Pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Cell Profiler Illumination Correction Pipeline

```

Add new lines after all H1 (or H2, H3, etc.) headings.

> In this module, I present the 10 CellProfiler pipelines I created using various manual parameters to create the illumination function and correct the raw images. The chosen image for comparison is **D6_01_1_4_DAPI_001.tif** due to the large artifact present in the bottom right corner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this module, I present the 10 CellProfiler pipelines I created using various manual parameters to create the illumination function and correct the raw images.
The chosen image for comparison is **D6_01_1_4_DAPI_001.tif** due to the large artifact present in the bottom right corner.
```

Reviewer: Can you comment on the goal of the illumination function for this image? It's not clear to me that any amount of massaging this image will adjust for this artifact. Are we expecting to keep this cell? Are we expecting to keep the other cells?

> Within the [Images folder](1.illumination_correction/Images), there is only the one image from the data set that I chose to compare with each other. 

Reviewer: Can you add a comment about how you calculated the illumination function? It's clear to me that you're using only 1 image to compare results, but you're calculating the illumination function using all NF1 images, correct?

## Opinions for each pipeline

> Below I provide my opinions regarding each pipeline, how the illumination correction function worked on the chosen image, and how it worked in general with all of the images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below I provide my opinions regarding each pipeline, how the illumination correction function performed on the chosen image, and how it performed in general with all of the images.
```

> ### Regular -> Each image -> Median (Manual 40) -> Divide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Regular -> Each image -> Median (Manual 40) -> Divide

```

To add new line after H3 heading

    - Fast runtime.
    - All images are very dim, hard to tell if illumination correction occurred.
    - Must brighten images to see 

>     - For the chosen image, once brightened in ImageJ, it looks like the nuclei have become darker in the center and then brighter on the edges.

Reviewer: Presumably this is a bad thing?

        - Due to this, this pipeline is likely not viable as it could impact the biological anaylsis.

### Regular -> All: Across Cycles -> Median (Manual 40) -> Divide 

    - Much slower runtime, approximately 12 minutes.
    - Creates a weird "shadow" effect, where in all the images, there looks to be dark shadows of the object being stained for based on the channel.
    - This shadow issue can really be seen in the chosen image, where the shadows can be seen all over the artifact.
    - Seems to be that the "All: Across Cycles" parameter causes there to be reminants of other images on each image

### Background (Block 60)-> Each image -> Median (Manual 40) -> Divide

    - Fast runtime.

>     - Creates faint boxes over objects for majority of the images in the data set.

Reviewer: oh interesting (I think!) - what is a "faint box"?

>     - For the chosen image, it is obvious the huge squiggly lines over the artifact that expand over the nuclei in the top right corner.

Reviewer: is is obvious that... what? It is obvious that this is a bad thing?

>     - Note: Divide parameter is not what is recommended for using the Background parameter, it should be Subtract 

Reviewer: the divide parameter is not what "we" recommend? Or is it not what the CellProfiler manual recommends?

    
### Regular -> Each image -> Median (Manual 100) -> Divide

    - Fast runtime.
    - Objects within the images can be seen a tiny bit easier than with the parameter "Median (Manual 40).
    - Most of the objects with in the GFP and RFP channel images are still impossible to see clearly to the human eye.

>     - All images from the DAPI channel show nuclei with "holes".

Reviewer: interesting! (presumably not natural?)

    - As seen in the chosen image from this pipeline, the artifact is missing but all of the nuclei have a very dark center ("hole").

### Regular (Dilate 1) -> Each image -> Median (Manual 200) -> Divide

>     - This pipeline does very well with the DAPI channel, all nuclei are not distorted.

Reviewer: This section is very well articulated.

    - Both GFP and RFP channels objects are still dim and the illumination correction function works differently between them.
        - Noticably, the RFP channel has random very dark areas.
    - In the chosen image, the artifact has been completely removed along with a nuclei at the top right of the image.

### Regular -> Each image -> Median (Manual 500) -> Divide

>     - This pipeline works very closely like the pipeline above, where the GFP and RFP channels are brighter but have weird dark areas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - This pipeline works similarly as the pipeline above, where the GFP and RFP channels are brighter but have weird dark areas.
```

    - In the chosen image, the artifact is still there but the nuclei in the top right corner is not impacted (still visible).

### Regular -> Each image -> Median (Automatic) -> Divide

    - Images all come out very dark and hard for the human eye to interpret for prototyping with in downstream pipelines.
    - In the chosen image, when brightened in ImageJ, the nuclei are obviously distorted and likely impact the biological analysis.

### Background (Block 200)-> Each image -> Median (Manual 40) -> Divide

    - The DAPI and GFP channels seemed to be corrected for and didn't show any distortion expect for in the chosen image where the artifact has odd lines within it.
    - Note: Divide parameter is not what is recommended for using the Background parameter, it should be Subtract 

### Regular -> Dilate 50 -> Each image -> Median (Manual 200) -> Divide

>     - First attmepted with Dilate 100, but it does not work due to working and memory error 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - First attempted with Dilate 100, but it does not work due to working and memory error 
```

Reviewer: Also, what is a "working error"?

    - Dilation seems to take up a lot of effort from the computer when it gets higher
         - I left it to run overnight and it was at 18 hours of runtime and it was not finished

>          - Finished at about 20 hours.

Reviewer: wow!

    - DAPI and GFP channels with this method seemed to come out with no distortions and the illumination corrected, but the when brightening the images up, the background around the objects (like a vignette) are dimmer than the rest of the background. This can be seen when brightening up the chosen image.
    - RFP channel images were very dim.

### Background (Block 60) -> Each image -> Median (Manual 40) -> Subtract

    - All images became blank after using the recommended parameter via the CellProfiler documentation (http://d1zymp9ayga15t.cloudfront.net/CPmanual/CorrectIlluminationApply.html).

>     - Even when trying to brighten the chosen image in ImageJ, all of the nuclei are gone and it can't be brightened.

Reviewer: yikes 😬

## Main Conclusion

> I believe after completing all of these pipelines, that these pipelines need to be updated per channel and it can not be universal for them all. This does mean that more time will be spent changing the parameters to be "the best" for each channel, but it is necessary since one channel can work perfectly with one set of parameters but for another channel it is awful with that same set of parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I believe after completing all of these pipelines, that these pipelines need to be updated per channel and it can not be universal for them all.
This does mean that more time will be spent changing the parameters to be "the best" for each channel, but it is necessary since one channel can work perfectly with one set of parameters but for another channel it is awful with that same set of parameters.
```

Reviewer: A general question: Do you think it's just because we have a relatively small number of images? Like, if we increased the number of images per channel, do you think the same illumination correction function would work universally?

Author: @gwaybio Maybe! I am really not sure. Honestly the function is being made per channel and per image, so I wonder if it can only work per channel because of the composition being different (i.e. the distribution of the cells, same lighting between images in each channel, etc). Let me know if you need to explain that better in person. I think it would take a lot of images to become universal, and maybe this is also impacted because CP only finds the darkfield.
